doc/developers-guide/app-development/rest.md, before:

---
title: "REST APIs"
slug: "rest"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2023-09-05T09:54:01.784Z"
updatedAt: "2023-09-05T09:54:01.784Z"
---

# CLNRest

CLNRest is a lightweight Python-based core lightning plugin that transforms RPC calls into a REST service. By generating REST API endpoints, it enables the execution of Core Lightning's RPC methods behind the scenes and provides responses in JSON format.

A complete documentation for the REST interface is available at [REST API REFERENCE](ref:get_list_methods_resource). 


> 📘 Pro-tip
> 
> [REST API REFERENCE](ref:get_list_methods_resource) can also be tested with your own server.
>
> By default, the base URL is set to connect with the Blockstream-hosted regtest node. 
>
> However, it can be configured to connect to your own cln node as described below:
>
> - Select `{protocol}://{ip}:{port}/` from Base URL dropdown on the right section of the page.
>
> - Click on the right side of the dropdown and configure `protocol`, `ip` and `port` values according to your setup.
>
> - The `ip` should be configured with your system's public IP address.
>
> - Default `rest-host` is `127.0.0.1` but this testing will require it to be `0.0.0.0`.
>
> Note: This setup is for **testing only**. It is **highly recommended** to test with _non-mainnet_ (regtest/testnet) setup only.


## Installation

Install required packages with `pip install json5 flask flask_restx gunicorn pyln-client flask-socketio gevent gevent-websocket` or `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

Note: if you have the older c-lightning-rest plugin, you can use `disable-plugin clnrest.py` to avoid any conflict with this one.  Of course, you could use this one instead!

## Configuration

If `rest-port` is not specified, the plugin will disable itself.

- --rest-port: Sets the REST server port to listen to (3010 is common)
- --rest-protocol: Specifies the REST server protocol. Default is HTTPS.
- --rest-host: Defines the REST server host. Default is 127.0.0.1.
- --rest-certs: Defines the path for HTTPS cert & key. Default path is same as RPC file path to utilize gRPC's client certificate. If it is missing at the configured location, new identity will be generated.
- --rest-csp: Creates a whitelist of trusted content sources that can run on a webpage and helps mitigate the risk of attacks. 
Default CSP is set as `default-src 'self'; font-src 'self'; img-src 'self' data:; frame-src 'self'; style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline';`.
Example CSP: `rest-csp=default-src 'self'; font-src 'self'; img-src 'self'; frame-src 'self'; style-src 'self'; script-src 'self';`.
- --rest-cors-origins:   Define multiple origins which are allowed to share resources on web pages to a domain different from the one that served the web page. Default is `*` which allows all origins. Example to define multiple origins:

```
rest-cors-origins=https://localhost:5500
rest-cors-origins=http://192.168.1.50:3030
rest-cors-origins=https?://127.0.0.1:([0-9]{1,4}|[1-5][0-9]{4}|6[0-4][0-9]{3}|65[0-4][0-9]{2}|655[0-2][0-9]|6553[0-5])

```

## Server

With the default configurations, the Swagger user interface will be available at https://127.0.0.1:3010/. The POST method requires `rune` header for authorization.

- A new `rune` can be created via [createrune](https://docs.corelightning.org/reference/lightning-createrune) or the list of existing runes can be retrieved with [listrunes](https://docs.corelightning.org/reference/lightning-listrunes) command.

Note: in version v23.08, a parameter `Nodeid` was required to be the id of the node we're talking to (see `id (pubkey)` received from [getinfo](https://docs.corelightning.org/reference/lightning-getinfo) ).  You can still send this for backwards compatiblity, but it is completely ignored.

### cURL
Example curl command for POST will also require a `rune` header like below:
    `curl -k -X POST 'https://127.0.0.1:3010/v1/getinfo' -H 'Rune: <node-rune>'`

With `-k` or `--insecure` option curl proceeds with the connection even if the SSL certificate cannot be verified.
This option should be used only when testing with self signed certificate.

## Websocket Server
Websocket server is available at `https://127.0.0.1:3010`. clnrest queues up notifications received for a second then broadcasts them to listeners.

### Websocket client examples

#### Python

```python
import socketio
import requests

http_session = requests.Session()
http_session.verify = True
http_session.headers.update({
    "rune": "your-generated-rune"
})
sio = socketio.Client(http_session=http_session)

@sio.event
def connect():
    print("Client Connected")

@sio.event
def disconnect():
    print(f"Server connection closed.\nCheck CLN logs for errors if unexpected")

@sio.event
def message(data):
    print(f"Message from server: {data}")

@sio.event
def error(err):
    print(f"Error from server: {err}")

sio.connect('http://127.0.0.1:3010')

sio.wait()

```

#### NodeJS

```javascript
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const socket = io.connect('http://127.0.0.1:3010', {extraHeaders: {rune: "your-generated-rune"}});

socket.on('connect', function() {
  console.log('Client Connected');
});

socket.on('disconnect', function(reason) {
  console.log('Server connection closed: ', reason, '\nCheck CLN logs for errors if unexpected');
});

socket.on('message', function(data) {
  console.log('Message from server: ', data);
});

socket.on('error', function(err) {
  console.error('Error from server: ', err);
});

```

#### HTML

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Socket.IO Client Example</title>
    <script src="https://cdn.socket.io/4.0.1/socket.io.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Socket.IO Client Example</h1>
    <hr>
    <h3>Status:</h3>
    <div id="status">Not connected</div>
    <hr>
    <h3>Send Message:</h3>
    <input type="text" id="messageInput" placeholder="Type your message here">
    <button onclick="sendMessage()">Send</button>
    <hr>
    <h3>Received Messages:</h3>
    <div id="messages"></div>
    <script>
        const statusElement = document.getElementById('status');
        const messagesElement = document.getElementById('messages');

        const socket = io('http://127.0.0.1:3010', {extraHeaders: {rune: "your-generated-rune"}});

        socket.on('connect', () => {
            statusElement.textContent = 'Client Connected';
        });

        socket.on('disconnect', (reason) => {
            statusElement.textContent = 'Server connection closed: ' + reason + '\n Check CLN logs for errors if unexpected';
        });

        socket.on('message', (data) => {
            const item = document.createElement('li');
            item.textContent = JSON.stringify(data);
            messagesElement.appendChild(item);
            console.log('Message from server: ', data);
        });

        socket.on('error', (err) => {
            const item = document.createElement('li');
            item.textContent = JSON.stringify(err);
            messagesElement.appendChild(item);
            console.error('Error from server: ', err);
        });

        function sendMessage() {
            const message = messageInput.value;
            if (message) {
                socket.emit('message', message);
                messageInput.value = '';
            }
        }
    </script>
</body>
</html>

```

Commit message:

doc: update clnrest documentation about `rest-certs` option
Also replace `listrunes` by `showrunes` in `rest.md` file.

doc/developers-guide/app-development/rest.md, after:

---
title: "REST APIs"
slug: "rest"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2023-09-05T09:54:01.784Z"
updatedAt: "2023-09-05T09:54:01.784Z"
---

# CLNRest

CLNRest is a lightweight Python-based core lightning plugin that transforms RPC calls into a REST service. By generating REST API endpoints, it enables the execution of Core Lightning's RPC methods behind the scenes and provides responses in JSON format.

A complete documentation for the REST interface is available at [REST API REFERENCE](ref:get_list_methods_resource).


> 📘 Pro-tip
>
> [REST API REFERENCE](ref:get_list_methods_resource) can also be tested with your own server.
>
> By default, the base URL is set to connect with the Blockstream-hosted regtest node.
>
> However, it can be configured to connect to your own cln node as described below:
>
> - Select `{protocol}://{ip}:{port}/` from Base URL dropdown on the right section of the page.
>
> - Click on the right side of the dropdown and configure `protocol`, `ip` and `port` values according to your setup.
>
> - The `ip` should be configured with your system's public IP address.
>
> - Default `rest-host` is `127.0.0.1` but this testing will require it to be `0.0.0.0`.
>
> Note: This setup is for **testing only**. It is **highly recommended** to test with _non-mainnet_ (regtest/testnet) setup only.


## Installation

Install required packages with `pip install json5 flask flask_restx gunicorn pyln-client flask-socketio gevent gevent-websocket` or `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

Note: if you have the older c-lightning-rest plugin, you can use `disable-plugin clnrest.py` to avoid any conflict with this one.  Of course, you could use this one instead!

## Configuration

If `rest-port` is not specified, the plugin will disable itself.

- --rest-port: Sets the REST server port to listen to (3010 is common)
- --rest-protocol: Specifies the REST server protocol. Default is HTTPS.
- --rest-host: Defines the REST server host. Default is 127.0.0.1.
- --rest-certs: Defines the path for HTTPS cert & key. Default path is 'lightning-dir/network/clnrest' depending on **lightning-dir** and **network** values (default: **$HOME/.lightning/bitcoin/clnrest**). If `client.pem` and `client-key.pem` are not defined in that directory, new self-signed certificates will be generated.
- --rest-csp: Creates a whitelist of trusted content sources that can run on a webpage and helps mitigate the risk of attacks.
Default CSP is set as `default-src 'self'; font-src 'self'; img-src 'self' data:; frame-src 'self'; style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline';`.
Example CSP: `rest-csp=default-src 'self'; font-src 'self'; img-src 'self'; frame-src 'self'; style-src 'self'; script-src 'self';`.
- --rest-cors-origins:   Define multiple origins which are allowed to share resources on web pages to a domain different from the one that served the web page. Default is `*` which allows all origins. Example to define multiple origins:

```
rest-cors-origins=https://localhost:5500
rest-cors-origins=http://192.168.1.50:3030
rest-cors-origins=https?://127.0.0.1:([0-9]{1,4}|[1-5][0-9]{4}|6[0-4][0-9]{3}|65[0-4][0-9]{2}|655[0-2][0-9]|6553[0-5])

```

## Server

With the default configurations, the Swagger user interface will be available at https://127.0.0.1:3010/. The POST method requires `rune` header for authorization.

- A new `rune` can be created via [createrune](https://docs.corelightning.org/reference/lightning-createrune) or the list of existing runes can be retrieved with [showrunes](https://docs.corelightning.org/reference/lightning-showrunes) command.

Note: in version v23.08, a parameter `Nodeid` was required to be the id of the node we're talking to (see `id (pubkey)` received from [getinfo](https://docs.corelightning.org/reference/lightning-getinfo) ).  You can still send this for backwards compatiblity, but it is completely ignored.

### cURL
Example curl command for POST will also require a `rune` header like below:
    `curl -k -X POST 'https://127.0.0.1:3010/v1/getinfo' -H 'Rune: <node-rune>'`

With `-k` or `--insecure` option curl proceeds with the connection even if the SSL certificate cannot be verified.
This option should be used only when testing with self signed certificate.

## Websocket Server
Websocket server is available at `https://127.0.0.1:3010`. clnrest queues up notifications received for a second then broadcasts them to listeners.

### Websocket client examples

#### Python

```python
import socketio
import requests

http_session = requests.Session()
http_session.verify = True
http_session.headers.update({
    "rune": "your-generated-rune"
})
sio = socketio.Client(http_session=http_session)

@sio.event
def connect():
    print("Client Connected")

@sio.event
def disconnect():
    print(f"Server connection closed.\nCheck CLN logs for errors if unexpected")

@sio.event
def message(data):
    print(f"Message from server: {data}")

@sio.event
def error(err):
    print(f"Error from server: {err}")

sio.connect('http://127.0.0.1:3010')

sio.wait()

```

#### NodeJS

```javascript
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const socket = io.connect('http://127.0.0.1:3010', {extraHeaders: {rune: "your-generated-rune"}});

socket.on('connect', function() {
  console.log('Client Connected');
});

socket.on('disconnect', function(reason) {
  console.log('Server connection closed: ', reason, '\nCheck CLN logs for errors if unexpected');
});

socket.on('message', function(data) {
  console.log('Message from server: ', data);
});

socket.on('error', function(err) {
  console.error('Error from server: ', err);
});

```

#### HTML

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Socket.IO Client Example</title>
    <script src="https://cdn.socket.io/4.0.1/socket.io.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Socket.IO Client Example</h1>
    <hr>
    <h3>Status:</h3>
    <div id="status">Not connected</div>
    <hr>
    <h3>Send Message:</h3>
    <input type="text" id="messageInput" placeholder="Type your message here">
    <button onclick="sendMessage()">Send</button>
    <hr>
    <h3>Received Messages:</h3>
    <div id="messages"></div>
    <script>
        const statusElement = document.getElementById('status');
        const messagesElement = document.getElementById('messages');

        const socket = io('http://127.0.0.1:3010', {extraHeaders: {rune: "your-generated-rune"}});

        socket.on('connect', () => {
            statusElement.textContent = 'Client Connected';
        });

        socket.on('disconnect', (reason) => {
            statusElement.textContent = 'Server connection closed: ' + reason + '\n Check CLN logs for errors if unexpected';
        });

        socket.on('message', (data) => {
            const item = document.createElement('li');
            item.textContent = JSON.stringify(data);
            messagesElement.appendChild(item);
            console.log('Message from server: ', data);
        });

        socket.on('error', (err) => {
            const item = document.createElement('li');
            item.textContent = JSON.stringify(err);
            messagesElement.appendChild(item);
            console.error('Error from server: ', err);
        });

        function sendMessage() {
            const message = messageInput.value;
            if (message) {
                socket.emit('message', message);
                messageInput.value = '';
            }
        }
    </script>
</body>
</html>

```
